politeia v1.3.1
====

This patch release includes the following fixes and improvements. See the
changelog for the full list of changes.

- Fixes a MySQL maximum placeholder bug. MySQL allows a maximum of 65,535
  placeholders to be used in a single prepared statement. This limit was being
  hit on a recent proposal vote that had a high voter turnout, causing certain
  clients to be unable to cast votes during the last day of voting.

- Makes various small improvements to politeiavoter. A signal interrupt bug
  and a bug that was causing unnecessary retry attempts were both fixed. The
  --hoursprior UX was also cleaned up.

- Fixes a performance bottleneck on the proposal list views. v1.3.0 added a
  API request to the proposal list views that nearly doubled the list view load
  time. This release reduces the response time of this call by ~86%.  The
  proposal list view performance now matches the pre v1.3.0 performance.

## Changelog

This release consists of 14 commits from 2 contributors which totals to 44
files changed, 2,595 additional lines of code and 587 deleted lines of code.

[45c7f39] docs: Add v1.3.0 release notes. [lukebp]  
[ee56e9c] pictl: Add proposal status opt to seedproposals. [lukebp]  
[fdc6e23] sessions: Implement mysql db. [amass01]  
[c0d95bd] usermd: Add cache fsck. [amass01]  
[df87720] pictl: Add timer flag. [lukebp]  
[5921145] politeiavoter: Fix retry loop bug. [lukebp]  
[43fe7b3] politeiavoter: Improve summary printing. [lukebp]  
[e9cc239] politeiavoter: Fix duplicate vote bug. [lukebp]  
[7f42cfe] pi: Cache proposal statuses. [amass01]  
[760e539] politeiad: Execute batch reads concurrently. [lukebp]  
[ba9da84] pi: Update proposal status cache logging. [lukebp]  
[ede2886] politeiavoter: Improve hoursprior UX. [lukebp]  
[b7f8a71] mysql: Batch select queries when required. [lukebp]  
[e5c7b90] Bump version to v1.3.1. [lukebp]  

## Code Contributors (alphabetical order)

- Amir Massarwa (amass01)
- Luke Powell (lukebp)
